CHRONIC DISEASES 

Chronic disease is a disease that persists for a long time.
Chronic diseases generally cannot be prevented by vaccines or cured by medication, nor do they just disappear. 
Health damaging behaviors - particularly tobacco use, lack of physical activity, and poor eating habits - are major contributors to the leading chronic diseases.
The leading chronic diseases in developed countries include cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity.


CANCER 
Cancer is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. 
There are more than 100 types of cancer, including skin cancer, lung cancer and lymphoma. Symptoms vary depending on the type.
  CAUSE AND EFFECT: Factors such as age, gender, race, local environmental factors, diet, and genetics are some of the leading causes for cancer.
                    Change in bowel or bladder habits, a sore throat that does not heal, unusual bleeding or discharge, Indigestion (usually chronic) or difficulty swallowing, 
                    nagging cough or hoarseness are some effects of cancer.
  CURE/TREATMENT: Cancer treatment options include: Surgery, Chemotherapy, Radiation therapy, Bone marrow transplant, Cryoablation and Radiofrequency ablation.
  STATISTICS: 1.Cancer is the second leading cause of death globally, and is responsible for an estimated 9.6 million deaths in 2018. Globally, about 1 in 6 deaths is due to cancer.
              2.Approximately 70% of deaths from cancer occur in low- and middle-income countries.
              3.Around one third of deaths from cancer are due to the 5 leading behavioral and dietary risks: high body mass index, low fruit and vegetable intake, lack of physical activity, tobacco use, and alcohol use.
              4.Tobacco use is the most important risk factor for cancer and is responsible for approximately 22% of cancer deaths.
              5.Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide, accounting for an estimated 9.6 million deaths in 2018. The most common cancers are:
              6.Lung (2.09 million cases), Breast (2.09 million cases), Colorectal (1.80 million cases), Prostate (1.28 million cases), Skin cancer (non-melanoma) (1.04 million cases), Stomach (1.03 million cases).
              7.The most common causes of cancer death are cancers of:
                Lung (1.76 million deaths), Colorectal (862 000 deaths), Stomach (783 000 deaths), Liver (782 000 deaths), Breast (627 000 deaths).
 
              

CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE 
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a general term for conditions affecting the heart or blood vessels. 
It's usually associated with a build-up of fatty deposits inside the arteries (atherosclerosis) and an increased risk of blood clots.
The 4 main types of cardiovascular disease are- Coronary Heart Disease, Stroke or TIA, Peripheral Arterial Disease and Aortic Disease.
    CAUSE AND EFFECT: Some causes for CVD are being overweight, lack of physical activity, poor nutrition, smoking and having a family history of cardiovascular disease.
                      Effects include pain or pressure in the chest, pain or discomfort in the arms, left shoulder, elbows, jaw, or back, shortness of breath, nausea and fatigue, lightheadedness or dizziness and cold sweats.
    CURE/TREATMENT: Some options for cure or treatment include: medication, such as to reduce low density lipoprotein cholesterol, improve blood flow, or regulate heart rhythm and surgery.               
    STATISTICS: 1.CVDs are the number 1 cause of death globally: more people die annually from CVDs than from any other cause.
                2.An estimated 17.9 million people died from CVDs in 2016, representing 31% of all global deaths. Of these deaths, 85% are due to heart attack and stroke.
                3.Over three quarters of CVD deaths take place in low- and middle-income countries.
                4.Out of the 17 million premature deaths (under the age of 70) due to noncommunicable diseases in 2015, 82% are in low- and middle-income countries, and 37% are caused by CVDs.
